#LyX 2.0 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 413
\begin_document
\begin_header
\textclass article
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman default
\font_sans default
\font_typewriter default
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100
\font_tt_scale 100

\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry false
\use_amsmath 1
\use_esint 1
\use_mhchem 1
\use_mathdots 1
\cite_engine basic
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\use_refstyle 1
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\quotes_language english
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Home Constitution
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
David Guenther
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Purpose
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Planet Home's focus is on establishing healthy, thriving families.
 This is established by the physical support, mental support, and spiritual
 support that parents offer to their children through relationship.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Roles
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Mothers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Mothers provide the physical, emotionally, and genetic support that a child
 needs at their earliest stages.
 A child cannot function without a mother for the first nine months of their
 life.
 It is in the best interest of the child therefore, the maintain this connection
 for the rest of their life.
 In the case of a dysfunctional family: Planet Home seeks rather to help
 the original mother of the child find help in raising a child, rather then
 to remove the child from the situation.
 However, if the mother is unwilling to change, measures might need to be
 taken to provide a safe home for the child.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Fathers
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As a child also cannot be created without the help of a father, and genetic
 code is passed from father to child, it is imperative that a child know
 their father.
 It is also crucial that a father spend time with their child, and show
 their love to them.
 Love of a father prevents many emotional problems later in life.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Younger Children (>=12)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Younger children cannot care for themselves fully, and need supervision.
 Food, Water, and Sleep are not enough for these children to thrive.
 They need to have security, fun, and love in addition to grow.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Older Children (<12)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Middle children represent a key transformation period.
 They go from playing with toys, to playing with real life.
 No longer are their amusements purely theoretical, but they transfer into
 situations that have significant consequences.
 It is at this point that the child is given more and more privileges to
 aid in their maturity development.
 In addition, they might be required to care for younger children as well,
 or work to help provide for the families income.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Layout
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Co-Ed Family
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A family should not consist of more then 12 individuals, with a mother figure
 and a father figure.
 It is ideal [if not mandatory], that this couple be married.
 In planet Home a family name is given to those who belong to a family.
 It is recommended children keep their original last name, however, substituting
 it as a middle name.
 This family is for life, and the kids will be legally adopted as children
 of the new parents.
 It is not recommended that these parents take more then 12 children during
 their time as parents, as these connections should be built for life.
 The more connections, the less time can be given to each individual.
 This base unit of a family is designed to eat together, often play together,
 and live alongside each other.
 A Family should consist of both boys and girls, however, extreme care must
 be given.
 If children are raised alongside each other from a young age, there will
 be significantly less sexual attraction.
 Well functioning family should be the safest place to be, for there must
 be much love.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Single Gender Family
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A separate contingent of family groups will be established for the development
 of kids who enter into Planet Home at a later age (10 and up).
 These children still need all the love and support that the Co-Ed Family's
 provide, and so the structure will be identical, with the exception that
 this family has only one gender.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Mentorship Family
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It may come that a boy or a girl comes to planet Home needing help, however,
 as they are already over the age of 16, and feel a strong need for independence
, forcing a family upon them might have a detrimental effect.
 What they need is help, but not things handed to them, for they are already
 at a place in life where they can provide for themselves.
 A mentorship family provides the love and support necessary to build these
 children up, without forcing a family they do not know on them.
 Could be run by a single person (same gender as mentoree)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Functions
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Marriage
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Marriage marks the beginning of a new family, and should not be discouraged
 for the older children.
 The new couple then will have to leave Planet Home, and start a new family
 somewhere else (hopefully reasonable living quarters can be provided for).
 This breaks the cycle of physical poverty given to these children, and
 allows them with a solid foundation to start a new life.
 There is no age limit on marriage, but rather a focus on maturity of the
 individuals to spend their life together.
 The host parents need to be involved in the establishment of this new marriage,
 providing counsel for the newly-weds.
 All those wishing to get married must have the firm mindset that marriage
 is forever.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Play
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Families need to spend time together, not just living together, but playing
 together.
 To this extent Families will spend time each week to hang out together.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Friends
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Children also need to have friends, and having families interact with each
 other brings about an opportunity for kids to meet and play with other
 kids..
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Integration
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Church
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Students should be provided with spiritual instruction, however, it should
 not be the role of those with the spiritual gift of teaching to teach those
 students.
 Families have the obligation to teach their children much of what the Bible
 says, from praying before meals, to doing devotions at night, but a child
 also needs to be with other believers who commonly meet together.
 It is this environment that provides the growth needed to transform a new
 Christian into a strong Christian.
 A family must make the attempt to continue to meet with other believers
 regularly for the purpose of spiritual growth.
 This meeting should have an APPET leadership team in place for most effective
 growth.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
School
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
School is a must for all kids, and all students of planet home go to school.
 While it would be recommended that these students go to Planet School,
 that is not a must.
 The important thing is that students go to school, and get an education.
 The benefit of planet School is that its design is conducive to older children
 taking care of younger children, while not falling behind in their studies,
 as much of the education can be done at home as well.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
