Purpose
=======

Planet Home’s focus is on establishing healthy, thriving families. This
is established by the physical support, mental support, and spiritual
support that parents offer to their children through relationship.

Roles
=====

Mothers
-------

Mothers provide the physical, emotionally, and genetic support that a
child needs at their earliest stages. A child cannot function without a
mother for the first nine months of their life. It is in the best
interest of the child therefore, the maintain this connection for the
rest of their life. In the case of a dysfunctional family: Planet Home
seeks rather to help the original mother of the child find help in
raising a child, rather then to remove the child from the situation.
However, if the mother is unwilling to change, measures might need to be
taken to provide a safe home for the child.

Fathers
-------

As a child also cannot be created without the help of a father, and
genetic code is passed from father to child, it is imperative that a
child know their father. It is also crucial that a father spend time
with their child, and show their love to them. Love of a father prevents
many emotional problems later in life.

Younger Children (\>=12)
------------------------

Younger children cannot care for themselves fully, and need supervision.
Food, Water, and Sleep are not enough for these children to thrive. They
need to have security, fun, and love in addition to grow.

Older Children (\<12)
---------------------

Middle children represent a key transformation period. They go from
playing with toys, to playing with real life. No longer are their
amusements purely theoretical, but they transfer into situations that
have significant consequences. It is at this point that the child is
given more and more privileges to aid in their maturity development. In
addition, they might be required to care for younger children as well,
or work to help provide for the families income.

Layout
======

Co-Ed Family
------------

A family should not consist of more then 12 individuals, with a mother
figure and a father figure. It is ideal [if not mandatory], that this
couple be married. In planet Home a family name is given to those who
belong to a family. It is recommended children keep their original last
name, however, substituting it as a middle name. This family is for
life, and the kids will be legally adopted as children of the new
parents. It is not recommended that these parents take more then 12
children during their time as parents, as these connections should be
built for life. The more connections, the less time can be given to each
individual. This base unit of a family is designed to eat together,
often play together, and live alongside each other. A Family should
consist of both boys and girls, however, extreme care must be given. If
children are raised alongside each other from a young age, there will be
significantly less sexual attraction. Well functioning family should be
the safest place to be, for there must be much love.

Single Gender Family
--------------------

A separate contingent of family groups will be established for the
development of kids who enter into Planet Home at a later age (10 and
up). These children still need all the love and support that the Co-Ed
Family’s provide, and so the structure will be identical, with the
exception that this family has only one gender.

### Mentorship Family

It may come that a boy or a girl comes to planet Home needing help,
however, as they are already over the age of 16, and feel a strong need
for independence, forcing a family upon them might have a detrimental
effect. What they need is help, but not things handed to them, for they
are already at a place in life where they can provide for themselves. A
mentorship family provides the love and support necessary to build these
children up, without forcing a family they do not know on them. Could be
run by a single person (same gender as mentoree)

Functions
=========

Marriage
--------

Marriage marks the beginning of a new family, and should not be
discouraged for the older children. The new couple then will have to
leave Planet Home, and start a new family somewhere else (hopefully
reasonable living quarters can be provided for). This breaks the cycle
of physical poverty given to these children, and allows them with a
solid foundation to start a new life. There is no age limit on marriage,
but rather a focus on maturity of the individuals to spend their life
together. The host parents need to be involved in the establishment of
this new marriage, providing counsel for the newly-weds. All those
wishing to get married must have the firm mindset that marriage is
forever.

Family
------

It is important to have homes in the context of family. Individual homes
should make an effort to meet with family members often. For those who
do not have family, homes will be paired with homes for the purpose of
family.

Friends
-------

Children also need to have friends, and having families interact with
each other brings about an opportunity for kids to meet and play with
other kids.

Integration
===========

Church
------

Students should be provided with spiritual instruction, however, it
should not be the role of those with the spiritual gift of teaching to
teach those students. Families have the obligation to teach their
children much of what the Bible says, from praying before meals, to
doing devotions at night, but a child also needs to be with other
believers who commonly meet together. It is this environment that
provides the growth needed to transform a new Christian into a strong
Christian. A family must make the attempt to continue to meet with other
believers regularly for the purpose of spiritual growth. This is
accomplished by the core group in church. A single family meets with
other families to compose this group. Meeting regularly, they encourage
each other in life.

School
------

School is a must for all kids, and all students go to school.

Children should be taught by their parents or family member until the
age of 11. If this is an impossibility, the school does provide
education at the facility, but it is with involvement from parents
attending a church.
