Purpose
=======

The School Community exists to educate students intellectually. To
educate students well mentally requires spiritual education, emotional
education, and physical education. Planet School will serve as the
primary component of a students intellectual education, while allowing
various other entities to contribute to a childâ€™s full development.

Planet School purpose is the transfer of knowledge centered around God,
creating students who are physically fit, mentally sound, and
spiritually alive.

Organization
============

Teachers
--------

Teachers have a relationship with a specific knowledge; their role is to
help foster a relationship between the student and this knowledge. To
accomplish this, teachers must have a relationship with the students.
Teachers are administrators, in the sense that collectively they work
together to keep the school running well. The head teacher, considered
First Among Equals makes sure the operation of the school is smooth.

Students
--------

Students goal is to build a relationship with knowledge. The most
effective way for students to do this is to build a relationship with a
teacher. Other forms include learning from a teacher without
relationship, and investigating the knowledge without a teacher, but
neither of these two systems are as effective as the first. As students
gain knowledge, they are then capable of imparting that knowledge to
other students

Development
===========

Primary Development
-------------------

This stage is from age 0 to 12. This focuses on the core curriculum
aspects. This stage is taught with close connection with the parents.
The school provides curriculum, events, and peer to peer relationships
in a home school environment. Parents are encouraged to educate their
children until until 12, at which point they will continue their
education at the school. For broken families, or families where this is
not possible, the school provides education for these children, bringing
in parents belong to a church. In such a case, students will be educated
about the foundations of Christianity.

Secondary Development
---------------------

This stage is from 12-18, and continues the development started in the
Primary stage. Students at the end of this will have the skills required
to learn any job.

Tertiary Development
--------------------

This stage is from 18-24, and is the last level in the development.
Students will learn specific career skills, and/or participate in
internships under a master.

Meetings
========

Group meetings
--------------

Layout
======

Group Meeting Area
------------------

The purpose of this location is to bring the whole school together, for
large presentations, or gatherings. Maximum of 1,500.

Group Learning Areas
--------------------

The purpose of this location is to provide an area for educators to
present their lessons in whatever form they choose. Maximum of 60
students.

Individual learning Areas
-------------------------

The purpose of this location is to provide a space for students to work
on assignments and learn on their own. This is a group location, so that
collaboration can happen. Teachers rooms are located in this area, so
that students can get immediate help, either from teachers or peers, for
concepts they do not understand. Individual learning areas are broken up
into groups of 12 people max. An older teacher or student, while working
on their own work, supervises the group.

Specialized areas
-----------------

### Kitchen

Proving food for students. Also doubles to serve the homeless and needy,
and proving food for Church.

### Creative Labs

Providing spaces to practice the creative arts.

### Science Labs

Proving spaces to investigate and work on the sciences

### Math Labs

Providing spaces to use and apply math. Engineering and comptuers are in
this area

### Garden (Biodome)

This provides food and relaxation for the school. Biology students also
use this location for their lab.

### Admin

Provides organization to the school

### Library

Source of materials for the school
